And we are back.
OK.
So in this lecture let's dip our toes into the actual modeling part of a lemonade stand.
Let's start at what you could consider the nucleus of the whole operation the product the actual cup
of limo nada.
So now you can unsheathed your Excel sword.
Say that 10 times fast.
Open up a brand new fresh sheet.
All right.
So we're going to break this in by focusing on one singular goal.
We want to get the average cost of each ingredient in our cup and by doing that we can then get the
average cost of every cup we serve.
This really is the core metric of unit economics.
I sell something.
Well how much exactly did it cost me to make that said something typically healthy businesses can keep
this metric well below what they're able to sell the product for.
This isn't in contrast to say if you were a startup or Amazon where it's completely OK to sell something
for half of what it costs to make true story.
Amazon openly admits that's a sizable portion of their online inventory.
It's like 20 percent or something is actually sold at a complete loss.
And you thought you could buy dog food with free shipping for nine dollars if you're bored go to Amazon
even go find some of those.
I'll give you a hand.
It's pretty hard to offer free shipping on fridges and wait plates and still keep your prices at parity
with Wal-Mart or Target or something that's local.
But I digress.
So what you want to do is list off at the top of a column size.
This is where world will list out the reference amount or size of each ingredient.
Make another column for cost.
How much the unit amount from the first column cost doesn't matter what amount you are referencing as
long as the cost matches it.
In the next column will want to list out the cost per unit.
So what's the cost per pound or per sack or per sheet of the ingredient.
Or we can standardize it down to say something like cost per ounce.
Lastly one more column for that final metric that we're really interested in the cost per cup.
Now in the rows below these columns will list out each individual ingredient and its associated metrics.
Okay.
Great.
At this point what would you do.
Well you would do some basic research to figure out some core questions of your business things like
how many lemons does it take to make a cup of lemonade.
How much ice would you put in every single cup.
What's the ratio I need for water sugar and lemons to get this sweet and not tart flavor.
Well in the real world you would either know this already or if you were just building out projections
you would just do some basic research in this simulated universe wall instead just tell you for this
model we're going to assume you need a ratio of 1 to 1 to 1 for sugar water and lemon juice respectively.
If this were Georgia we would go 5 to 1 to 1.
But in the effort of simplicity we'll keep it where it is.
Feel free to write this off to the side as an assumption.
If you're following along at home let's declare next that we want to sell each cup of lemonade at the
Big Gulp size of 16 ounces and for every 16 ounce we want four ounces of ice.
So after a trip to your local CBS or again you're in Georgia Piggly Wiggly which actually is her retail
store by the way.
You then discover the following costs 1 a 10 pound bag of ice cost you four dollars sugar cost you about
250 for a five pound bag that some are two and three the best price you could find for lemons is about
15 cents a lemon water.
We're not going to buy at the store we'll just use tap water which of course isn't free.
But if you do the math your utility bill could probably deduce that five gallons or so of cost to something
like 25 cents.
It's almost negligible.
We'll just leave it out.
Now we can plug these into our columns and we are halfway there to get the next column.
We just do some simple division.
If a 10 pound bag of ice cost four dollars and there are 16 ounces in a pound then to get the cost per
unit we just divide four dollars by one hundred and sixty ounces which ends up being about 2.5 cents
for water.
Guess what I changed my mind we're actually going incorporated in.
But we know it's going to be cheap.
So there's one hundred twenty eight ounces in a gallon.
Why we don't use the metric system I don't know don't ask.
But with that five gallons that means we have six hundred and forty ounces of H2.
Oh now to get the cost per ounce we then just take that 25 cents and divide that by 640.
So for every ounce we get a cost of about zero point 0 0 0 4 cents.
Basically nothing with sugar.
We run the same math.
A pound is 16 ounces so five pounds is eighty ounces total.
The total cost for that 80 ounces was two dollars and fifty cents.
And then you get the cost per ounce.
We just divide two dollars and fifty cents by eighty ounces.
Magic number ends up about something like three cents.
Finally let's do the lemons.
If a lemon costs 15 cents and we know we need about four ounces of lemon juice for each drink.
Remember the ratio of a 12 ounce drink has to be 1 to 1 to 1.
So we know it's four ounces for each individual ingredient.
The question remains how much juice can you get out of a lemon.
It's not I go to this Google Interview Questions where you have to answer an impossible riddle just
so they can see you think i.e. watch you struggle with this.
There is actually an answer.
Let's say you know off the top of your head because you're a precocious 6 year old that you can get
a 1 point to 5 ounces per limit or better yet because you have that lemon squeezy contraption you can
get even more.
So let's say one point seventy five ounces per Lemon.
That means you can get a cup of lemonade.
Remember which requires four ounces with about two point three one lemons.
That's impressive.
So you make sure to write down two whole lemons and all caps on your sign.
Now if each lemon is 15 cents that means each ounce of juice cost you about eight cents.
Any other cost we can throw in there.
Well let's say we're not exactly phoning it in and we're in this for the long haul.
We really want to make our product top shape.
Something people might call artisanal or bespoke.
You decide to put in a little lemon circles to garnish each drink.
Let's say you can make eight garnishes per Lemon.
So that adds another one point eight eight cents to each cup you sell which means you can fill in the
last column and then work backwards by then dividing by twelve to get the per ounce costs since one
garnish per cup of 12 ounces.
By the way when we say garnish I mean literally taking a lemon and cutting it into six pieces not doing
a bitters which is just the wrapper of the shell of the women last thing.
Don't forget to add things like cups straws and napkins.
Let's say you can get bulk five hundred cups for seventy nine dollars at Costco let's say napkins are
25 blocks for 500 let's say straws or seven dollars for a pack of five hundred run the same division
and you'll get these costs respectively.
All right.
So all of that prep work to lead up to this very moment.
Take each number and the per ounce column and multiply them by four.
Display that number and the per cup column and Wardlaw.
We now know that each ingredient costs this much.
No surprise lemon juice is the most expensive thing in your cup with the dark horse number two expense
cups.
Now lastly if we want to add all of these up we get the final boss value of eighty one cents per cup
of lemonade.
This business is a money printing machine next lecture.
We're going to go a little farther and talk about the unit cost that you forgot about waste contingency
and good old fashioned labor.
See you then.